## NeXT
In 1985 Apple Computer was split with team Sculley and team Jobs. But with Jobs fired from his own company Team Jobs had nowhere else to go apart from Jobs' dreams. Then in 1988, Steve Jobs founded NeXT Systems. This company operated in a quirky way, with a weird way of hiring staff. Jobs hand-picked a few employees from team Jobs that were loyal to him or helped with the making of the Macintosh. There was also a weird way of paychecks, too. If you worked for Jobs before 1985, then you were paid $75,000 USD a year (Equivalent to $150,000 today) but if you started working for Jobs after 1985, then you were paid $55,000 USD a year (Equivalent to $100,000 today). The first ever request that Jobs had while in NeXT was from a chemistry professor called Paul Burg for a 3M workstation for the purpose of higher education use with a megabyte of RAM, a megaFLOP of performance, and a display with a resolution of 1200 by 900, or one megapixel. One megabyte of RAM, a megaFLOP chip, and a megapixel display, hence the name 3M. This workstation ran the first beta of NeXT's Operating system, called NeXTSTEP and Jobs then renamed the 3M workstation to... The NeXT computer. Jobs thought it wasn't smart to ask for a lot of money for this beast, but because of the price of high-end electronics back then it marketed for a hefty price of 6,500 USD (Which adjusted for inflation today is a whopping 14,900 USD!)

NeXT continued to make high-powered computers (Well, for the time) for high prices and made computers like the NeXTstation Turbo, NeXTstation Color, NeXTstation Turbo Color, NeXTcube, NeXTcube Turbo, You probably get the gist. NeXT also made colour printers and CD-ROM drives on top of all of those computers. As time passed Apple was slowly fading into a failed startup. But Apple computer wasn't ready to take its last breath just yet. Apple pleased Jobs to come back to the company he started and Jobs, still thinking of the good old days when he was at Apple, accepted the offer oughtright and was back on the team.

## Pixar
When Steve Jobs started NeXT, He also started a company called the Graphics Group. But Jobs wasn't too keen with the name "Graphics Lab" but since it was already registered as a company, he sold it in 1986 and bought a company from Lucasfilm this time called Pixar. Pixar was focused on short films with 3D animated graphics. Pixar's computer was called the PIXAR image computer but people were afraid that it would be replaced with something better so it ended up being marketed for medical labs with a $135,000 USD launch price. Pixar was trying to get other companies to use their system and a company Steve approached was Disney and he proposed for a deal but Disney's CEO didn't agree to the contract. With this denial, Jobs decided to invest $1,500,000,000 (Or 1.5 Billion) into Disney shares which then meant that Jobs became Disney's largest shareholder! With his newfound wealth in Disney's intellectual property, Jobs made a new contract for $26 Million for a movie called Toy Story. This time Disney accepted the offer and after 9 whole years, it was finished and...  On the first weekend alone it made $30 Million! 4 Million more than the deal was! Pixar then went to make more movies for Disney and eventually Steve sold Pixar to Disney.

[Home](index.md)
