## Back at Apple
In 1997 Jobs was brought back into Apple computer and he got right back to work. Apple created the iMac that ran MacOS 8.1, a redesigned Macintosh OS with colour, a different taskbar, more complex techniques and more applications with more support for expansion slots like USB and Ethernet as well as a 56KBps internal modem. In 2000 apple made the iBook, But 2001 was a big year for Apple as they launched MacOS X with a user interface a lot like NeXTSTEP OS because of how that was easy for people to use with a "bar" that changes size when you add ir remove applications, a new theme that was aero-like and a web browser called Safari (Hence the name Cheetah and in later updates Puma, Jaguar and Panther). 2002 was another big year for apple as they introduced the iPod into this world. Fast forward a couple of years and in 2006 Steve Jobs brought out the Macbook into the world. The Macbook was a big hit in the Laptop market. It brought fast computer hardware into the hands of students who either didn't earn that much or was only allowed one computer. One year later Jobs released Apple's Phone with one line. *"An iPod, A Phone and an internet communicator. An iPod, A Phone."* This device was called the iPhone. But while this was happening Jobs was worried about something different that was on his mind. Or you could say on his spleen.

## Final years
In 2003 Jobs was diagnosed with Pancreatic cancer that if you don't know (You probably don't) is Cancer that "begins in the organ lying behind the lower part of the stomach" Jobs didn't think too much about it though because he had much bigger things on his mind. In 2004 he was told he needed an operation and he got the "Whipple" operation and without going into detail that is just a way doctors try to at least slow the cancer. After a short recovery he went back to Apple with the knowledge that he might die in a few years with him. His cancer didn't bother him that much until 2008 when he lost significant weight meaning that the cancer wasn't done yet. And on January 9, 2009 Steve revealed to the world that yes, he had cancer but he would continue his normal duties. Jobs temporarily removed himself from apple while he had a liver transplant. On January of 2011 he left Apple again but didn't come back until August this time. But unfortunately on October 5 2011 in Palo Alto again, he passed away.

[Home](index.md)
